back to the heg there's a a press
conference being held on the steps of
the he let's just listen it is that what
we heard today was not really an
engagement on the facts some engagement
on the facts but not really rebutting
what South Africa is trying to assert is
essentially trying to DCT um and blame
you know cast political aspersions on
the intentions of South Africa um and
what we are hoping for is that the
judges will actually look at the
strength of Our Own pleadings not only
now but also in terms of our responses
to Israel's written reports as required
by the courts um because we do believe
that our own intention here has really
been to bring to the four key concerns
around International crimes in
particularly the crimes of crimes which
is genocide in this case and we are very
serious about that from a human rights
perspective um and not essentially here
as alleged by um Israel that we are here
to defend or protect Hamas from
destruction
and I think that if one looks at the
evidence base that's been brought to not
just this court but to all of us through
the various means available before
journalists were disallowed is the
evidence of the massive destruction of
people um the lives but also you know
domicide is a new term emerging the
destruction of homes hospitals schools
universities all the means necessary for
a group to sustain life which is
essential at the core of the genocide
convention some of the
specificities um when we made our first
application in December and we followed
that up with our Auto pleadings we were
very clear in how we looked at October
7th we were very clear in our
application that while we recognize
under the Geneva conventions especially
protocol one of the 1977 Geneva
Convention that oppressed people have
the right to use Force they cannot
Target civilians targeting of civilians
is a war crime and it's for that reason
shortly after October 7th we approached
the international criminal court to ask
for both Hamas and those involved in the
armed attacks to be investigated for war
crimes under the under that um Geneva
Convention protocol one but also in
terms of their R statute we also asked
for of course for Israel to be
investigated for war crimes and in the
case of Israel also be because of
genocide because of the unfolding
genocide so to argue that we are here
again as they did in January on behest
of Hamas is completely false they then
refer
to
a conference that took place in South
Africa it was a civil society
conference that Civil Society conference
expressly invited Civil Society people
that had nothing to do with government
um and it invite included Civil Society
formations from Palestine including from
the Palestinian Authority where there's
an a a a a a section dealing with anti-
aparted and an anti partic
conference so to suggest as they did
that this was a government hosting of
Hamas is completely false um and we just
needed to clearly rebut that I want to
go back to the Geneva protocols and just
to to put the context for how South
Africa approaches this the South Africa
has got a Liberation movement not
government um that signed the Geneva
protocol um of 1977 in 1948 where they
that
um that Liberation movement is
subsequently become the majority
governing party and in 1948 they
voluntarily signed to adhere to all the
prescripts of that Geneva Convention
that they will not Target civilians that
is something that is script into how
government approaches these things so we
are defin we are signatories to the
Geneva conventions I must point out that
Israel is not a secondary to that very
same Geneva Convention they've
recognized that they may have some
obligations under International
customary law but um essentially they
are not adherance to the Geneva
conventions that we hope that now that
they are mentioning it will find
themselves bound to it given that
International customary law is binding
too um and important you know um article
75 of that convention prohibits
expressly as a war crime Collective
punishment it prohibits expressly as a
war crime torture and we've seen that
happening in the current context so if
they are want to point out to the war
crimes perpetrated by Hamas then clearly
they must see that what they doing is a
war crime and it's more serious in that
case because they are State and bound by
various various obligations as a state
even if they are not a party to the
Geneva conventions particularly protocol
one and protocol 2 of 7 7 so I wanted to
clarify that and um hopefully the other
issue that I think we need to to touch
on is
the unconditional release of
hostages on the steps year our Minister
of Foreign
Affairs when the judge the court made
the Judgment in
January expressly agreed and stated that
the hostages must be released
unconditionally we have made that
expressly clear in various statements as
well because we recognize in terms of
that very same um Geneva Convention 75
that we hold daily that hostage taking
breaches the Geneva Convention but that
also then
includes the unlawful detention of
Palestinians without dral thousands of
them which is tantum out to aage taking
so we call for that um for Palestinians
work
arrested without um essentially what we
call detention without Dr um that it's
it's essentially tantamount aage taking
in the current context so we hope that
this will be something that will be
factored in as well um with regards
to the attack on the data on the
fatalities the use of AA in in this
report reflects similar incorrect
interpretation of what AA is saying AA
has released a statement that it says
that it's not
reducing its numbers it's essentially
just trying to verify in a in a close as
possible way Mr Zay danger director
general of the Department of
international relations and Corporation
for the South African government
speaking there to the assembl Press cor
outside of the international until the
ver criminal uh International court of
justice there in the ha uh we have been
uh following Israel's presentation uh to
the icj and it's rebuttal of South
Africa's argument and appeal for special
measures for Rafa and for Gaza as the
ongoing Israel war on Gaza continues